---
lab:
    title: 'Lab: Building a web application on Azure Platform-as-a-Service offerings'
    module: 'Module 2: Develop Azure platform as a service (PaaS) compute solutions'
---

# Lab: Building a web application on Azure Platform-as-a-Service offerings
# Student lab manual

## Lab scenario

You are the owner of a startup organization and have been building an image gallery application for people to share great images of food. To get your product to market as quickly as possible, you decided to use Microsoft Azure App Service to host your web applications and APIs. Recently, you realized that the images that are being uploaded to your application are simply too large. Out of concern for storage and bandwidth costs, you decided to use Azure Functions to process images in the background and shrink them down to thumbnails that can be loaded quickly.

## Objectives

After you complete this lab, you will be able to:

-   Create various apps by using the Azure App Service.

-   Configure application settings for an app.

-   Deploy apps by using Kudu, the Azure CLI, and zip deployment.

-   Author a function app to process Azure Storage images.

## Lab setup

-   Estimated time: 90 minutes

## Instructions

### Before you start

#### Sign in to the lab virtual machine

Ensure that you are signed in to your **Windows 10** virtual machine by using the following credentials:
    
-   **Username**: Admin

-   **Password**: Pa55w.rd

#### Review installed applications

Observe the taskbar located at the bottom of your **Windows 10** desktop. The taskbar contains the icons for the applications that you will use in this lab:
    
-   Microsoft Edge

-   File Explorer

-   Windows PowerShell

-   Visual Studio Code

#### Download the lab files

1.  On the taskbar, select the **Windows PowerShell** icon.

1.  In the PowerShell command prompt, change the current working directory to the **Allfiles (F):\\** path:

    ```
    cd F:
    ```

1.  Within the command prompt, enter the following command and press Enter to clone the **microsoftlearning/AZ-203-DevelopingSolutionsforMicrosoftAzure** project hosted on GitHub into the **Allfiles (F):\\** drive:

    ```
    git clone --depth 1 --no-checkout https://github.com/microsoftlearning/AZ-203-DevelopingSolutionsForMicrosoftAzure .
    ```

1.  Within the command prompt, enter the following command and press **Enter** to check out the lab files necessary to complete the **AZ-203T02** lab:

    ```
    git checkout master -- Allfiles/*
    ```

1.  Close the currently running **Windows PowerShell** command prompt application.

### Exercise 1: Build a back-end API by using Azure Storage and API Apps

#### Task 1: Open the Azure portal

1.  Sign in to the [**Azure portal**](https://portal.azure.com) (portal.azure.com).

1.  If this is your first time signing in to the Azure portal, a dialog box will display offering a tour of the portal. Select **Get Started** to skip the tour.

#### Task 2: Create an Azure Storage account

1.  Create a new **storage account** with the following details:
    
      - **New** **resource** **group**: ManagedPlatform
    
      - **Name**: imgstor\[your name in lowercase\]
    
      - **Location**: (US) East US
    
      - **Performance**: Standard
    
      - **Account** **kind**: StorageV2 (general purpose v2)
    
      - **Replication**: Locally-redundant storage (LRS)
    
      - **Access tier**: Hot

> **Note**: Wait for Azure to finish creating the storage account before you move forward with the lab. You will receive a notification when the account is created.

1.  Access the **Access Keys** blade of your newly created **storage account** instance.

1.  Record the value of the **Connection string** field. You will use this value later in this lab.

#### Task 3: Upload a sample blob

1.  Access the **imgstor\*** storage account that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  In the **Blob service** section, select the **Blobs** link.

1.  Create a new **container** with the following settings:
    
      - **Name**: images
    
      - **Public access level**: Blob (anonymous read access for blobs only)

1.  Create another new **container** with the following settings:
    
      - **Name**: images-thumbnails
    
      - **Public access level**: Blob (anonymous read access for blobs only)

1.  Navigate to the new **images** container.

1.  Use the **Upload** button to upload the **grilledcheese.jpg** file located in the **Allfiles (F):\\Allfiles\\Labs\\02\\Starter\\Images** folder on your lab machine.

    > **Note**: It is recommended that you enable the **Overwrite if files already exist** option.

#### Task 4: Create an API app

1. Create a new **API app** with the following details:
    
    - **App name**: imgapi\[your name in lowercase\]
    
    - **Existing** **resource** **group**: ManagedPlatform

    > **Note**: Wait for Azure to finish creating the API app before you move forward with the lab. You will receive a notification when the app is created.

#### Task 5: Configure an API app

1.  Access the **imgapi\*** *API app* that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  In the **Settings** section on the left side of the blade, navigate to the **Configuration** section.

1.  Create a new **application setting** by using the following details:
    
      - **Name**: StorageConnectionString
    
      - **Value**: *\<Storage Connection String copied earlier in this lab\>*
    
      - **deployment slot setting**: Not selected

1.  Save your changes to the **Application settings**.

1.  In the **Settings** section on the left side of the blade, navigate to the **Properties** section.

1.  In the **Properties** section, copy the value of the **URL** field. You will use this value later in the lab.

#### Task 6: Deploy an ASP.NET Core web application to API App

1.  Using **Visual Studio Code**, open the web application located in the **Allfiles (F):\\Allfiles\\Labs\\02\\Starter\\API** folder.

1.  Open the **Controllers\\ImagesController.cs** file and observe the code in each of the methods.

1.  Open the **Windows** **PowerShell** application.

1.  Sign in to the Azure CLI by using your Microsoft Azure credentials:

    ```
    az login
    ```

1.  List all the **apps** in your **ManagedPlatform** resource group:

    ```
    az webapp list --resource-group ManagedPlatform
    ```

1.  Find the **apps** that have the prefix **imgapi\***:

    ```
    az webapp list --resource-group ManagedPlatform --query "[?starts_with(name, 'imgapi')]"
    ```

1.  Print only the name of the single app that has the prefix **imgapi\***:

    ```
    az webapp list --resource-group ManagedPlatform --query "[?starts_with(name, 'imgapi')].{Name:name}" --output tsv
    ```

1.  Change the current directory to the **Allfiles (F):\\Allfiles\\Labs\\02\\Starter\\API** directory that contains the lab files:

    ```
    cd F:\Labfiles\02\Starter\API\
    ```

1.  Deploy the **api.zip** file to the **API app** you created earlier in this lab:

    ```
    az webapp deployment source config-zip --resource-group ManagedPlatform --src api.zip --name <name-of-your-api-app>
    ```

    > **Note**: Replace the **\<name-of-your-api-app\>** placeholder with the name of the API app that you created earlier in this lab. You recently queried this app’s name in the previous steps.

1. Access the **imgapi\*** *API app* you created earlier in this lab.

1. Open the **imgapi\*** *API app* in your browser.

1. Perform a **GET** request to the root of the website and observe the JSON array that is returned. This array should contain the URL for your single uploaded image in your **Azure Storage** account.

#### Review

In this exercise, you created an API App in Azure and then deployed your ASP.NET Core web application to the API App by using the Azure CLI and Kudu’s zip deployment utility.

### Exercise 2: Build a front-end web application by using Azure web apps

#### Task 1: Create web app

1. In the Azure portal, create a new **web app** with the following details:
    
    - **App name**: imgweb\[your name in lowercase\]
    
    - **Existing** **resource** **group**: ManagedPlatform
    
    - **OS**: Windows

    > **Note**: Wait for Azure to finish creating the web app pbefore you move forward with the lab. You will receive a notification when the app is created.

#### Task 2: Configure a web app

1.  Access the **imgweb\*** *Web App* you created in the previous task.

1.  In the **Settings** section on the left side of the blade, navigate to the **Configuration** settings.

1.  Create a new **application setting** using the following details:
    
    - **Name**: ApiUrl
    
    - **Value**: *\<API App URL copied earlier in this lab\>*
    
    - **deployment slot setting**: Not selected

1.  **Save** your changes to the Application Settings.

#### Task 3: Deploy an ASP.NET Core web application to Web App

1.  Using **Visual Studio Code**, open the web application located in the **Allfiles (F):\\Allfiles\\Labs\\02\\Starter\\Web** folder.

1.  Open the **Pages\\Index.cshtml.cs** file and observe the code in each of the methods.

1.  Open the **Windows** **PowerShell** application.

1.  Sign in to the Azure CLI by using your Microsoft Azure credentials:

    ```
    az login
    ```

1.  List all the **apps** in your **ManagedPlatform** resource group:

    ```
    az webapp list --resource-group ManagedPlatform
    ```

1.  Find the **apps** that have the prefix **imgweb\***:

    ```
    az webapp list --resource-group ManagedPlatform --query "[?starts_with(name, 'imgweb')]"
    ```

1.  Print only the name of the single app that has the prefix **imgweb\***:
    
    ```
    az webapp list --resource-group ManagedPlatform --query "[?starts_with(name, 'imgweb')].{Name:name}" --output tsv
    ```

1.  Change your current directory to the **Allfiles (F):\\Allfiles\\Labs\\02\\Starter\\Web** directory that contains the lab files:

    ```
    cd F:\Labfiles\02\Starter\Web\
    ```
    
1.  Deploy the **web.zip** file to the **web app** that you created earlier in this lab:

    ```
    az webapp deployment source config-zip --resource-group ManagedPlatform --src web.zip --name <name-of-your-web-app>
    ```

    > **Note**: Replace the **\<name-of-your-web-app\>** placeholder with the name of the web app that you created earlier in this lab. You recently queried this app’s name in the previous steps.

1. Access the **imgweb\*** web app that you created earlier in this lab.

1. Open the **imgweb\*** web app in your browser.

1. Observe that the list of gallery images has been updated with your new image.

    > **Note**: In some rare cases, you might need to refresh your browser window for the new image to appear.

#### Review

In this exercise, you created an Azure Web App and deployed an existing web application’s code to the resource in the cloud.

### Exercise 3: Build a background processing job by using Azure Storage and Azure Functions

#### Task 1: Create a function app

1. In the Azure portal, create a new **function app** with the following details:

    - **App name**: imgfunc\[your name in lowercase\]

    - **Existing** **resource** **group**: ManagedResourceGroup

    - **OS**: Windows

    - **Hosting Plan**: Consumption Plan

    - **Location**: East US

    - **Runtime Stack**: .NET Core

    - **Storage**: imgstor\[your name in lowercase here\]

    > **Note**: Wait for Azure to finish creating the function app before you move forward with the lab. You will receive a notification when the app is created.

#### Task 2: Create a .NET Core application setting

1.  Access the **imgfunc\*** *Function App* that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  Navigate to the **Configuration** settings located in the **Platform features** tab.

1.  Create a new **application setting** by using the following details:
    
    - **Name**: DOTNET_SKIP_FIRST_TIME_EXPERIENCE

    - **Value**: true

        > **Note**: The ``DOTNET_SKIP_FIRST_TIME_EXPERIENCE`` application setting tells .NET Core to disable it's built-in NuGet package caching mechanisms. On a temporary compute instance, this would effectively be a waste of time and cause build issues with your Azure Function.

1.  Save your changes to the **Application settings**.

#### Task 3: Author a function to process blobs

1.  On the Azure portal left navigation pane, select **Resource groups**.

1.  In the **Resource groups** blade, locate and select the **ManagedPlatform** resource group that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  In the **ManagedPlatform** blade, select the **imgfunc\*** function app that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  In the **Function App** blade, select **+ New function**.

1.  In the **New Azure Function** quickstart, perform the following actions:
    
    1.  Under the **Choose a Development Environment** header, select **In-Portal**.
    
    1.  Select **Continue**.
    
    1.  Under the **Create a Function** header, select **More templates…**.
    
    1.  Select **Finish and view templates**.
    
    1.  In the **Templates** list, select **Azure Blob Storage trigger**.
    
    1.  In the **Extensions not Installed** window, select **Install**.

        > **Note**: It can take up to two minutes to install the extensions needed to work with Azure Storage blobs. If the portal does not refresh, simply close the **Extensions not Installed** pop-up window and select **Azure Blob Storage trigger** again.

    1.  Once the installation has succeeded, select **Continue**.

    1.  In the **New Function** window, in the **Name** field enter **ImageManager**.

    1.  In the **New Function** window, in the **Path** field enter **images/{name}**.

    1.  In the **New Function** window, in the **Storage account connection** list, select **AzureWebJobsStorage**.

    1.  In the **New Function** window, select **Create**.

1.  On the right side of the function editor, select **View files** to open the tab.

1.  In the **View files** tab, select **Add**.

1.  In the filename dialog that appears, enter **function.proj**.

1.  In the file editor, insert this configuration content:

    ```
    <Project Sdk="Microsoft.NET.Sdk">
        <PropertyGroup>
            <TargetFramework>netstandard2.0</TargetFramework>
        </PropertyGroup>
        <ItemGroup>
            <PackageReference Include="SixLabors.ImageSharp" Version="1.0.0-beta0006" />
        </ItemGroup>
    </Project>
    ```

1. In the editor, select **Save** button to persist your changes to the configuration.

    > **Note**: This **.proj** file contains the NuGet package reference necessary to import the [SixLabors.ImageSharp](https://www.nuget.org/packages/SixLabors.ImageSharp/1.0.0-beta0006) package.

1.  Back in the **View files** tab, select the **function.json** file to view the editor for the function’s configuration.

1.  In the JSON editor, observe the current configuration:

    ```
    {
      "bindings": [
        {
          "name": "myBlob",
          "type": "blobTrigger",
          "direction": "in",
          "path": "images/{name}",
          "connection": "AzureWebJobsStorage"
        }
      ],
      "disabled": false
    }
    ```

1. Replace the entire contents of the JSON configuration file with the following JSON content:

    ```
    {
      "bindings": [
        {
          "name": "inputBlob",
          "type": "blobTrigger",
          "direction": "in",
          "path": "images/{name}",
          "connection": "AzureWebJobsStorage"
        },
        {
          "type": "blob",
          "name": "outputBlob",
          "path": "images-thumbnails/{name}",
          "connection": "AzureWebJobsStorage",
          "direction": "out"
        }
      ]
    }
    ```

1. In the JSON editor, select **Save** button to persist your changes to the configuration.

1. Back in the **View files** tab, select the **run.csx** file to return to the editor for the **ImageManager** function.

1. Minimize the **View files** tab.

    > **Note**: You can minimize the tab by selecting the arrow immediately to the right of the tab header.

1. In the function editor, observe the example function script:

    ```
    public static void Run(Stream myBlob, string name, ILogger log)
    {
        log.LogInformation($"C# Blob trigger function Processed blob\n Name:{name} \n Size: {myBlob.Length} Bytes");
    }
    ```

1. **Delete** all the example code.

1. Within the editor, copy and paste the following placeholder function:

    ```
    using SixLabors.ImageSharp;
    using SixLabors.ImageSharp.PixelFormats;
    using SixLabors.ImageSharp.Processing;
    using SixLabors.ImageSharp.Formats.Jpeg;
    using SixLabors.Primitives;
    
    public static void Run(Stream inputBlob, Stream outputBlob, string name, ILogger log)
    {
    }
    ```

1. In the editor, select **Save** to save the script and compile the code.

1. Add the following line of code to log information about the function execution:

    ```
    log.LogInformation($"C# Blob trigger function Processed blob\n Name:{name} \n Size: {inputBlob.Length} Bytes");
    ```

1. Add the following **using** block to load the **Stream** for the input blob into the image library:

    ```
    using (Image<Rgba32> image = Image.Load(inputBlob))
    {
    }
    ```

1. Add the following lines of code within the **using** block to mutate the image by resizing the image and applying a grayscale filter:

    ```
    image.Mutate(i => 	
        i.Resize(new ResizeOptions { Size = new Size(250, 250), Mode = ResizeMode.Max }).Grayscale()
    );
    ```
1. Add the following line of code to save the new image to the **Stream** for the output blob:

    ```
    image.Save(outputBlob, new JpegEncoder());
    ```

1. Your **Run** method should now resemble the following:

    ```
    using SixLabors.ImageSharp;
    using SixLabors.ImageSharp.PixelFormats;
    using SixLabors.ImageSharp.Processing;
    using SixLabors.ImageSharp.Formats.Jpeg;
    using SixLabors.Primitives;
    
    public static void Run(Stream inputBlob, Stream outputBlob, string name, ILogger log)
    {
        log.LogInformation($"C# Blob trigger function Processed blob\n Name:{name} \n Size: {inputBlob.Length} Bytes");
        using (Image<Rgba32> image = Image.Load(inputBlob))
        {
            image.Mutate(i => 	
                i.Resize(new ResizeOptions { Size = new Size(250, 250), Mode = ResizeMode.Max }).Grayscale()
            );
            image.Save(outputBlob, new JpegEncoder());
        }
    }
    ```

1. In the editor, select **Save** to save the script and compile the code again.

#### Task 4: Validate the web solution

1.  On the Azure portal left navigation pane, select **Resource groups**.

1.  In the **Resource groups** blade, locate and select the **ManagedPlatform** resource group that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  In the **ManagedPlatform** blade, select the **imgstor\*** storage account that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  In the **Storage Account** blade, in the **Blob service** section on the left side of the blade, select the **Blobs** link.

1.  In the **Blobs** section, select the **images** container.

1.  In the **Container** blade, select **Upload**.

1.  In the **Upload blob** window that appears, perform the following actions:
    
    1.  In the **Files** section, select the **Folder** icon.
    
    1.  In the File Explorer dialog box that opens, go to **Allfiles (F):\\Allfiles\\Labs\\02\\Starter\\Images**, select the **veggie.jpg** file, and then select **Open**.
    
    1.  Ensure that the **Overwrite if files already exist** check box is selected.
    
    1.  Select **Upload**.

1.  Wait for the blob to be uploaded before you continue with this lab.

1.  Close the **Container** blade.

1. Back in the **Blobs** section, select the **images-thumbnails** container.

1. In the **Container** blade, observe the newly created **veggie.jpg** file in the **images-thumbnails** container.

    > **Note**: It might take one to five minutes for the new image to appear.

1. In the **images-thumbnails** container, select the **veggie.jpg** blob.

1. In the **Blob** blade, select the **Edit blob** tab.

1. Observe the contents of the blob.

1. On the left side of the portal, select **Resource groups**.

1. In the **Resource groups** blade, locate and select the **ManagedPlatform** resource group that you created earlier in this lab.

1. In the **ManagedPlatform** blade, select the **imgweb\*** web app that you created earlier in this lab.

1. In the **Web App** blade, select **Browse**.

1. Observe the list of images in the gallery.

1. At the top of the **Contoso Photo Gallery** webpage, locate the **Upload a new image** section and perform the following actions:
    
    1.  Select **Browse**.
    
    1.  In the File Explorer dialog box that opens, go to **Allfiles (F):\\Allfiles\\Labs\\02\\Starter\\Images**, select the **blt.jpg** file, and then select **Open**.
    
    1.  Select the **Upload**.

1. At the top of the webpage, locate the **Upload a new image** section and perform the following actions:
    
    1.  Select **Browse**.
    
    1.  In the File Explorer dialog box that opens, go to **Allfiles (F):\\Allfiles\\Labs\\02\\Starter\\Images**, select the **sub.jpg** file, and then select **Open**.
    
    1.  Select **Upload**.

1. At the top of the webpage, locate the **Upload a new image** section and perform the following actions:
    
    1.  Select **Browse**.
    
    1.  In the File Explorer dialog box that opens, go to **Allfiles (F):\\Allfiles\\Labs\\02\\Starter\\Images**, select the **burger.jpg** file, and then select **Open**.
    
    1.  Select **Upload**.

1. On the **Contoso Photo Gallery** webpage, observe that the list of gallery images has been updated with your new image.

1. Observe the list of thumbnails at the top of the page. Refresh your page every minute until your thumbnails have been generated.

#### Review

In this exercise, you created a background processing job in Azure Functions to handle the computationally intensive task of modifying and resizing images.

### Exercise 4: Clean up subscription 

#### Task 1: Open Cloud Shell

1.  At the top of the Azure portal, select the **Cloud Shell** icon to open a new shell instance.

1.  At the bottom of the portal in the **Cloud Shell** command prompt, type the following command and press Enter to list all resource groups in the subscription:

    ```
    az group list
    ```

1.  Type the following command and press Enter to view a list of possible commands to delete a resource group:

    ```
    az group delete --help
    ```

#### Task 2: Delete resource groups

1.  Type the following command and press Enter to delete the **ManagedPlatform** resource group:

    ```
    az group delete --name ManagedPlatform --no-wait --yes
    ```

1.  Close the **Cloud Shell** pane at the bottom of the portal.

#### Task 3: Close active applications

1.  Close the currently running **Microsoft Edge** application.

1.  Close the currently running **Visual Studio Code** application.

#### Review

In this exercise, you cleaned up your subscription by removing the **resource groups** used in this lab.
