---
lab:
    title: 'Lab: Constructing a polyglot data solution'
    module: 'Module 3: Develop for Azure Storage'
---

# Lab: Constructing a polyglot data solution
# Student lab manual

## Lab scenario

You have been assigned the task of updating your company’s existing retail web application to use more than one data service in Microsoft Azure. Your company’s goal is to leverage the best data service for each application component. After conducting thorough research, you decide to migrate your inventory database from Azure SQL Database to Azure Cosmos DB. You have also decided to implement your shopping cart functionality using Azure Cache for Redis. Since the existing application code is modular, you will take the existing application and add new providers for these data services hosted in Azure.

## Objectives

After you complete this lab, you will be able to:

-   Create instances of various database services using the Azure Portal.

-   Write C# code to connect to Azure SQL Database.

-   Write C# code to connect to Azure Cosmos DB.

-   Write C# code to connect to Azure Cache for Redis.

## Lab setup

-   **Estimated Time**: 90 minutes

## Instructions

### Before you start

#### Sign in to the lab virtual machine

Ensure that you are signed in to your **Windows 10** virtual machine using the following credentials:

-   **Username**: Admin

-   **Password**: Pa55w.rd

#### Review installed applications

Observe the taskbar located at the bottom of your **Windows 10** desktop. The taskbar contains the icons for the applications you will use in this lab:

-   Microsoft Edge

-   File Explorer

-   Visual Studio Code

#### Download the lab files

1.  On the taskbar, select the **Windows PowerShell** icon.

1.  In the PowerShell command prompt, change the current working directory to the **Allfiles (F):\\** path:

    ```
    cd F:
    ```

1.  Within the command prompt, enter the following command and press Enter to clone the **microsoftlearning/AZ-203-DevelopingSolutionsForAzure** project hosted on GitHub into the **Allfiles (F):\\** drive:

    ```
    git clone --depth 1 --no-checkout https://github.com/microsoftlearning/AZ-203-DevelopingSolutionsForMicrosoftAzure .
    ```

1.  Within the command prompt, enter the following command and press **Enter** to check out the lab files necessary to complete the **AZ-203T03** lab:

    ```
    git checkout master -- Allfiles/*
    ```

1.  Close the currently running **Windows PowerShell** command prompt application.

### Exercise 1: Creating database resources in Azure

#### Task 1: Open the Azure portal

1.  Sign in to the **Azure portal** (<https://portal.azure.com>).

1.  If this is your first time signing in to the Azure portal, you will see a dialog box offering a tour of the portal. Select the **Get Started** button to skip the tour.

#### Task 2: Create an Azure Cache for Redis resource

1.  Create a new **Azure Cache for Redis** resource with the following details:

    -   **DNS name**: polyrediscache\[your name in lowercase\]
        
    -   **New resource group**: PolyglotData

    -   **Location**: East US

    -   **Pricing tier**: Basic C0 (250MB Cache)

    > **Note**: Wait for Azure to finish creating the Azure Cache for Redis instance before you move forward with the lab. You will receive a notification when the Redis cache is created.

1.  Navigate to the blade for your newly created **Azure Cache for Redis** resource.

1.  Open the **Access keys** pane.

1.  In the **Access keys** pane, record the value in the **Primary connection string (StackExchange.Redis)** field. 

    > **Note**: You will use this value later in this lab.

#### Task 3: Create an Azure SQL server resource

1.  Create a new **SQL server** resource with the following details:
    
    -   **Server Name**: polysqlsrvr\[your name in lowercase\]
        
    -   **Existing resource group**: PolyglotData

    -   **Server admin login**: testuser

    -   **Password**: TestPa$$w0rd

    -   **Location**: East US

    -   **Allow Azure Services to access server**: Yes

    > **Note**: Wait for Azure to finish creating the SQL server instance before you move forward with the lab. You will receive a notification when the SQL server is created.

#### Task 4: Create an Azure Cosmos DB account resource

1.  Create a new **Azure Cosmos DB** instance with the following details:
    
      - **Account Name**: polycosmos\[your name in lowercase\]
    
      - **Existing resource group**: PolyglotData
    
      - **API**: Core (SQL)
    
      - **Location**: East US
    
      - **Geo-Redundancy**: Disable
    
      - **Multi-region Writes**: Disable

    > **Note**: Wait for Azure to finish creating the Azure Cosmos DB account before you move forward with the lab. You will receive a notification when the Azure Cosmos DB account is created.

1.  Navigate to the blade for your newly created **Azure Cosmos DB account** resource.

1.  Open the **Keys** pane.

1.  In the **Keys** pane, record the value of the **PRIMARY CONNECTION STRING** field. 

    > **Note**: You will use these values later in this lab.

#### Task 5: Create an Azure Storage account resource

1.  Create a new **Azure Storage account** with the following details:
    
      - **Storage account name**: polystor\[your name in lowercase\]
    
      - **Existing resource group**: PolyglotData
    
      - **Account kind**: StorageV2 (general purpose v2)
    
      - **Location**: East US
    
      - **Replication**: Locally-redundant storage (LRS)
    
      - **Performance**: Standard
    
      - **Access tier (default)**: Hot

    > **Note**: Wait for Azure to finish creating the storage account before you move forward with the lab. You will receive a notification when the storage account is created.

#### Review

In this exercise, you created all the Azure resources that you will need for a polyglot data solution.

### Exercise 2: Import databases and images

#### Task 1: Upload image blobs

1.  Navigate to the blade for the **polystor\*** Azure Storage account you created earlier in this lab.

1.  Open the **Blobs** pane.

1.  Create a new container with the following settings:

    -   **Name**: images

    -   **Public access level**: Blob (anonymous read access for blobs only)

1.  Navigate to the new **images** container.

1.  Open the **Properties** pane.

1.  In the **Properties** pane, record the value in the **URL** field.

    > **Note**: You will use this value later in this lab.

1.  Return to the blade for the **images** container.

1.  Use the **Upload** button to upload the fourty-two **.jpg** image files located in the **Allfiles (F):\\Allfiles\\Labs\\03\\Starter\\Images** folder on your lab machine.

    > **Note**: It is recommended that you enable the **Overwrite if files already exist** option.

#### Task 2: Upload SQL .bacpac file

1.  Navigate back to the blade for the **polystor\*** Azure Storage account.

1.  Open the **Blobs** pane again.

1.  Create a new container with the following settings:

    -   **Name**: databases

    -   **Public access level**: Private (no anonymous access)

1.  Navigate to the new **databases** container.

1.  Use the **Upload** button to upload the **AdventureWorks.bacpac** file located in the **Allfiles (F):\\Allfiles\\Labs\\03\\Starter\\** folder on your lab machine.

    > **Note**: It is recommended that you enable the **Overwrite if files already exist** option.

#### Task 3: Import SQL database

1.  Navigate to the blade for the **polysqlsrvr\*** SQL server resource you created earlier in this lab.

1.  Import the database from your Azure Storage account into the SQL server instance using the following details:

    -   **Storage account**: polystor\*

    -   **Database backup blob**: databases\AdventureWorks.bacpac

    -   **Database name**: AdventureWorks

    -   **Server admin login**: testuser

    -   **Password**: TestPa$$w0rd

    > **Note**: Wait for the database to be created before you continue with this lab.

#### Task 4: Use imported SQL Database

1.  Navigate back to the blade for the **polysqlsrvr\*** SQL server resource.

1.  Open the **Firewalls and virtual networks** pane.

1.  Add your current (**client**) IP address to the list of allowed IP addresses and **Save** the list.

1.  Navigate to the blade for the **AdventureWorks** SQL database resource you recently imported.

1.  Open the **Connection strings** pane.

1.  Record the value of the **ADO.NET (SQL Authentication)** connection string. 

1.  Update the connection string you recorded by replacing the placeholder values for ``{your_username}`` and ``{your_password}`` with the values **testuser** and **TestPa$$w0rd**, respectively.

    > **Note**: For example, if your connection string was originally ``Server=tcp:polysqlsrvrinstructor.database.windows.net,1433;Initial Catalog=AdventureWorks;User ID={your_username};Password={your_password};``, your updated connection string will be ``Server=tcp:polysqlsrvrinstructor.database.windows.net,1433;Initial Catalog=AdventureWorks;User ID=testuser;Password=TestPa$$w0rd;``

1.  Navigate back to the blade for the **AdventureWorks** SQL database resource.

1.  Open the **Query editor** pane.

1.  Login using the following credentials:

    -   **Username**: testuser

    -   **Password**: TestPa$$w0rd

1.  Execute the following query and observe the results:

    ```
    SELECT * FROM AdventureWorks.dbo.Models
    ```

    > **Note**: This query will return a list of models that will appear on the homepage of the web application.

1.  Execute this additional query and observe the results:

    ```
    SELECT * FROM AdventureWorks.dbo.Products
    ```

    > **Note**: This query will return a list of products associated with each model.

#### Review

In this exercise, you imported all of the resources you will use with your web application.

### Exercise 3: Open and configure a .NET Core web application

#### Task 1: Open and build the web application

1.  Using Visual Studio Code, open the solution folder found at: **Allfiles (F):\\Allfiles\\Labs\\03\\Starter\\AdventureWorks**.

1.  Using a terminal, build the .NET Core solution:

    ```
    dotnet build
    ```

    > **Note**: The ``dotnet build`` command will automatically restore any missing NuGet packages prior to building all projects in the folder.

1.  Dispose of the current terminal.

#### Task 2: Update SQL connection string

1.  Open the **AdventureWorks.Web/appsettings.json** file in Visual Studio Code.

1.  Replace the value of the ``ConnectionStrings.AdventureWorksSqlContext`` property with the **ADO.NET (SQL Authentication) connection string** of the **SQL database** that you recorded earlier in this lab.
    
    > **Note**: It is important that you use your updated connection string here. The original connection string copied from the portal will not have the username and password necessary to connect to the SQL database.

1.  Save the **appsettings.json** file.

#### Task 3: Update blob base URL
    
1.  Replace the value of the ``Settings.BlobContainerUrl`` property with the **URL** property of the **Azure Storage** blob container named **images** that you recorded earlier in this lab.

1.  Save the **appsettings.json** file.

#### Task 4: Validate web application

1.  Using a terminal, change your context to the **AdventureWorks.Web** folder:

    ```
    cd .\AdventureWorks.Web\
    ```

1.  Using the same terminal, run the ASP.NET Core web application project:

    ```
    dotnet run
    ```

    > **Note**: The ``dotnet run`` command will automatically build any changes to the project and then start the web application without a debugger attached. The command will output the URL of the running application and any assigned ports.

1.  Open the **Microsoft Edge** browser.

1.  In the open browser window, navigate to the web application hosted at **localhost** on port **5000**.

    > **Note**: The URL is <http://localhost:5000>.

1.  In the web application, observe the list of models displayed on the front page.

1.  Locate the **Water Bottle** model and select **View Details**.

1.  On the **Water Bottle** product detail page, select **Add to Cart**.

1.  Observe that the checkout functionality is currently disabled.

    > **Note**: For now, only the product page functionality is implemented. You will implement the checkout logic later in this lab.

1.  Close the browser window showing your web application.

1.  Return to the **Visual Studio Code** window.

1.  Dispose of the current terminal.

#### Review

In this exercise, you configured your ASP.NET Core web application to connect to your resources in Azure.

### Exercise 4: Migrating SQL data to Azure Cosmos DB

#### Task 1: Create migration project

1.  Using a terminal, create a new .NET project named **AdventureWorks.Migrate** in a folder with the same name:

    ```
    dotnet new console --name AdventureWorks.Migrate --langVersion preview
    ```

    > **Note**: The ``dotnet new`` command will create a new **console** project in a folder with the same name as the project.

1.  Using the same terminal, add a reference to the existing **AdventureWorks.Models** project:

    ```
    dotnet add .\AdventureWorks.Migrate\AdventureWorks.Migrate.csproj reference .\AdventureWorks.Models\AdventureWorks.Models.csproj
    ```

    > **Note**: The ``dotnet add reference`` command will add a reference to the model classes contained in the **AdventureWorks.Models** project.

1.  Using the same terminal, add a reference to the existing **AdventureWorks.Context** project:

    ```
    dotnet add .\AdventureWorks.Migrate\AdventureWorks.Migrate.csproj reference .\AdventureWorks.Context\AdventureWorks.Context.csproj
    ```

    > **Note**: The ``dotnet add reference`` command will add a reference to the context classes contained in the **AdventureWorks.Context** project.

1.  Using the same terminal, change your context to the **AdventureWorks.Migrate** folder:

    ```
    cd .\AdventureWorks.Migrate\
    ```

1.  Using the same terminal, import version **2.2.6** of the **Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.SqlServer** from NuGet:

    ```
    dotnet add package Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.SqlServer --version 2.2.6
    ```

    > **Note**: The ``dotnet add package`` command will add the **[Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.SqlServer](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.SqlServer/2.2.6)** package from **NuGet**.

1.  Using the same terminal, import version **3.0.0** of the **Microsoft.Azure.Cosmos** from NuGet:

    ```
    dotnet add package Microsoft.Azure.Cosmos --version 3.0.0
    ```

    > **Note**: The ``dotnet add package`` command will add the **[Microsoft.Azure.Cosmos](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Azure.Cosmos/3.0.0)** package from **NuGet**.

1.  Using the same terminal, build the .NET Core web application:

    ```
    dotnet build
    ```

1.  Dispose of the current terminal.

#### Task 2: Create .NET class 

1.  Open the **AdventureWorks.Migrate/Program.cs** file in Visual Studio Code.

1.  Delete all existing code in the **Program.cs** file.

1.  Add the following using blocks for libraries that will be referenced by the application:

    ```
    using AdventureWorks.Context;
    using AdventureWorks.Models;
    using Microsoft.Azure.Cosmos;
    using Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore;
    using System;
    using System.Collections.Generic;
    using System.Linq;
    using System.Threading.Tasks;
    ```

1.  Create a new **Program** class with two constant string properties and an asynchronous **Main** entry point method:

    ```
    public class Program
    {
        private const string sqlDBConnectionString = "";
        private const string cosmosDBConnectionString = "";
        
        public static async Task Main(string[] args)
        {
        }
    }
    ```

1.  Update the the **sqlDBConnectionString** string constant by setting its value to the **ADO.NET (SQL Authentication) connection string** of the **SQL database** that you recorded earlier in this lab.

    > **Note**: It is important that you use your updated connection string here. The original connection string copied from the portal will not have the username and password necessary to connect to the SQL database.

1.  Update the the **cosmosDBConnectionString** string constant by setting its value to the **PRIMARY CONNECTION STRING** of the **Azure Cosmos DB account** that you recorded earier in this lab.

#### Task 3: Get SQL database records using Entity Framework

1.  Within the **Main** method, add the following blocks of code to implement an export of all Model and Product records from Azure SQL Database to local memory:

    ```
    await Console.Out.WriteLineAsync("Start Migration");

    AdventureWorksSqlContext context = new AdventureWorksSqlContext(sqlDBConnectionString);

    List<Model> items = await context.Models
        .Include(m => m.Products)
        .ToListAsync<Model>();

    await Console.Out.WriteLineAsync($"Total Azure SQL DB Records: {items.Count}");
    ```

1.  Save the **Program.cs** file.

1.  Using a terminal, change your context to the **AdventureWorks.Migrate** folder:

    ```
    cd .\AdventureWorks.Migrate\
    ```

1.  Using the same terminal, build the ASP.NET Core web application project:

    ```
    dotnet build
    ```

    > **Note**: If there are any build errors, please review the **Program.cs** file located in the **Allfiles (F):\\Allfiles\\Labs\\03\\Solution\\AdventureWorks\\AdventureWorks.Migrate** folder.

1.  Dispose of the current terminal.

#### Task 4: Insert items into Azure Cosmos DB

1.  Still within the **Main** method, add the following blocks of code to implement an import of the in-memory Model and Product data as documents to Azure Cosmos DB:

    ```
    CosmosClient client = new CosmosClient(cosmosDBConnectionString);

    Database database = await client.CreateDatabaseIfNotExistsAsync("Retail");

    Container container = await database.CreateContainerIfNotExistsAsync("Online",
        partitionKeyPath: $"/{nameof(Model.Category)}",
        throughput: 1000
    );

    int count = 0;
    foreach (var item in items)
    {
        ItemResponse<Model> document = await container.UpsertItemAsync<Model>(item);
        await Console.Out.WriteLineAsync($"Upserted document #{++count:000} [Activity Id: {document.ActivityId}]");
    }

    await Console.Out.WriteLineAsync($"Total Azure Cosmos DB Documents: {count}");
    ```

1.  Save the **Program.cs** file.

1.  Using a terminal, change your context to the **AdventureWorks.Migrate** folder:

    ```
    cd .\AdventureWorks.Migrate\
    ```

1.  Using the same terminal, build the ASP.NET Core web application project:

    ```
    dotnet build
    ```

    > **Note**: If there are any build errors, please review the **Program.cs** file located in the **Allfiles (F):\\Allfiles\\Labs\\03\\Solution\\AdventureWorks\\AdventureWorks.Migrate** folder.

#### Task 5: Perform migration

1.  Using the same terminal, run the ASP.NET Core web application project:

    ```
    dotnet run
    ```

    > **Note**: The ``dotnet run`` command will start the console application.

1.  Observe the various data that is printed to the screen including; initial SQL record count, individual upsert activity identifiers, final Azure Cosmos DB document count.

1.  Dispose of the current terminal.

#### Task 6: Validate migration

1.  Return to the **Microsoft Edge** browser window showing the **Azure portal**.

1.  Navigate to the blade for the **polycosmos\*** Azure Cosmos DB account you created earlier in this lab.

1.  Open the **Query editor** pane.

1.  Create a new **SQL query** tab within the context of the **Retail** database and **Online** container.

1.  Execute the following query and observe the results:

    ```
    SELECT * FROM models
    ```

1.  Execute the following query and observe the results:

    ```
    SELECT VALUE COUNT(1) FROM models
    ```

#### Review

In this exercise, you used Entity Framework and the .NET SDK for Azure Cosmos DB to migrate data from Azure SQL Database to Azure Cosmos DB.

### Exercise 5: Accessing Azure Cosmos DB using .NET

#### Task 1: Update Library with the Cosmos SDK and references

1.  Using a terminal, change your context to the **AdventureWorks.Context** folder:

    ```
    cd .\AdventureWorks.Context\
    ```

1.  Using the same terminal, import the **Microsoft.Azure.Cosmos** from NuGet:

    ```
    dotnet add package Microsoft.Azure.Cosmos --version 3.0.0
    ```

    > **Note**: The ``dotnet add package`` command will add the **[Microsoft.Azure.Cosmos](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Azure.Cosmos/3.0.0)** package from **NuGet**.

1.  Using the same terminal, build the ASP.NET Core web application project:

    ```
    dotnet build
    ```

1.  Dispose of the current terminal.

#### Task 2: Write .NET code to connect to Azure Cosmos DB

1.  Create a new **AdventureWorks.Context/AdventureWorksCosmosContext.cs** file in Visual Studio Code.

1.  Add the following using blocks for libraries that will be referenced by the application:

    ```
    using AdventureWorks.Models;
    using Microsoft.Azure.Cosmos;
    using Microsoft.Azure.Cosmos.Linq;
    using System;
    using System.Collections.Generic;
    using System.Linq;
    using System.Threading.Tasks;
    ```
    
1.  Enter the following code to add a **AdventureWorks.Context** namespace block:

    ```
    namespace AdventureWorks.Context
    {
    }
    ```

1.  Create a new **AdventureWorksCosmosContext** class that implements the **IAdventureWorksProductContext** interface with a single readonly **Container** variable:

    ```
    public class AdventureWorksCosmosContext : IAdventureWorksProductContext
    {
        private readonly Container _container;
    }
    ```

1.  Within the **AdventureWorksCosmosContext** class, add a new constructor that creates a new instance of the **CosmosClient** class and then obtain both a **Database** and **Container** instance from the client:

    ```
    public AdventureWorksCosmosContext(string connectionString, string database = "Retail", string container = "Online")
    {
        _container = new CosmosClient(connectionString)
            .GetDatabase(database)
            .GetContainer(container);
    }
    ```

1.  Within the **AdventureWorksCosmosContext** class, add a new **FindModelAsync** method that creates a LINQ query, transforms it into an iterator, iterates over the result set, and then returns the single item in the result set:

    ```
    public async Task<Model> FindModelAsync(Guid id)
    {
        var iterator = _container.GetItemLinqQueryable<Model>()
            .Where(m => m.id == id)
            .ToFeedIterator<Model>();

        List<Model> matches = new List<Model>();
        while (iterator.HasMoreResults)
        {
            var next = await iterator.ReadNextAsync();
            matches.AddRange(next);
        }

        return matches.SingleOrDefault();
    }
    ```

1.  Within the **AdventureWorksCosmosContext** class, add a new **GetModelsAsync** method that executes a sql query, gets the query result iterator, iterates over the result set, and then returns the union of all results:

    ```
    public async Task<List<Model>> GetModelsAsync()
    {
        string query = $@"SELECT * FROM items";

        var iterator = _container.GetItemQueryIterator<Model>(query);

        List<Model> matches = new List<Model>();
        while (iterator.HasMoreResults)
        {
            var next = await iterator.ReadNextAsync();
            matches.AddRange(next);
        }

        return matches;
    }
    ```

1.  Within the **AdventureWorksCosmosContext** class, add a new **FindProductAsync** method that executes a sql query, gets the query result iterator, iterates over the result set, and then returns the single item in the result set:

    ```
    public async Task<Product> FindProductAsync(Guid id)
    {
        string query = $@"SELECT VALUE products
                            FROM models
                            JOIN products in models.Products
                            WHERE products.id = '{id}'";

        var iterator = _container.GetItemQueryIterator<Product>(query);

        List<Product> matches = new List<Product>();
        while (iterator.HasMoreResults)
        {
            var next = await iterator.ReadNextAsync();
            matches.AddRange(next);
        }

        return matches.SingleOrDefault();
    }
    ```

1.  Save the **AdventureWorksCosmosContext.cs** file.

1.  Using a terminal, change your context to the **AdventureWorks.Context** folder:

    ```
    cd .\AdventureWorks.Context\
    ```
    
1.  Using the same terminal, build the ASP.NET Core web application project:

    ```
    dotnet build
    ```

    > **Note**: If there are any build errors, please review the **AdventureWorksCosmosContext.cs** file located in the **Allfiles (F):\\Allfiles\\Labs\\03\\Solution\\AdventureWorks\\AdventureWorks.Context** folder.

1.  Dispose of the current terminal.

#### Task 3: Update Azure Cosmos DB connection string

1.  Open the **AdventureWorks.Web/appsettings.json** file in Visual Studio Code.

1.  Replace the value of the ``ConnectionStrings.AdventureWorksCosmosContext`` property with the **PRIMARY CONNECTION STRING** of the **Azure Cosmos DB account** that you recorded earier in this lab.

1.  Save the **appsettings.json** file.

#### Task 4: Update .NET application startup logic

1.  Open the **AdventureWorks.Web/Startup.cs** file in Visual Studio Code.

1.  In the **Startup** class, locate the existing **ConfigureProductService** method.

    > **Note**: The current product service uses SQL as its database.

1.  Replace the **ConfigureProductService** method implementation with the following code:

    ```
    public void ConfigureProductService(IServiceCollection services)
    {
        services.AddScoped<IAdventureWorksProductContext, AdventureWorksCosmosContext>(provider =>
                new AdventureWorksCosmosContext(
                    _configuration.GetConnectionString(nameof(AdventureWorksCosmosContext))
                )
        );
    }
    ```

1.  Save the **Startup.cs** file.

#### Task 5: Validate .NET application successfully connects to Azure Cosmos DB

1.  Using a terminal, change your context to the **AdventureWorks.Web** folder:

    ```
    cd .\AdventureWorks.Web\
    ```
    
1.  Using the same terminal, run the ASP.NET Core web application project:

    ```
    dotnet run
    ```

    > **Note**: The ``dotnet run`` command will automatically build any changes to the project and then start the web application without a debugger attached. The command will output the URL of the running application and any assigned ports.

1.  Open the **Microsoft Edge** browser.

1.  In the open browser window, navigate to the web application hosted at **localhost** on port **5000**.

    > **Note**: The URL is <http://localhost:5000>.

1.  In the web application, observe the list of models displayed on the front page.

1.  Locate the **Touring-1000** model and select **View Details**.

1.  On the **Touring-1000** product detail page, perform the following actions:

    1.  In the **Select options** list, select **Touring-1000 Yellow, 50, $2,384.07**.
    
    1.  Select **Add to Cart**.

1.  Observe that the checkout functionality is still disabled.

    > **Note**: In the next exercise, you will implement the checkout logic.

1.  Close the browser window showing your web application.

1.  Return to the **Visual Studio Code** window.

1.  Dispose of the current terminal.

#### Review

In this exercise, you wrote C# code to query an Azure Cosmos DB collection using the .NET SDK.

### Exercise 6: Accessing Azure Cache for Redis using .NET

#### Task 1: Update Library with the StackExchange.Redis SDK and references

1.  Using a terminal, change your context to the **AdventureWorks.Context** folder:

    ```
    cd .\AdventureWorks.Context\
    ```

1.  Using the same terminal, import the **Newtonsoft.Json** from NuGet:

    ```
    dotnet add package Newtonsoft.Json --version 12.0.2
    ```

    > **Note**: The ``dotnet add package`` command will add the **[Newtonsoft.Json](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Newtonsoft.Json/12.0.2)** package from **NuGet**.


1.  Using the same terminal, import the **StackExchange.Redis** from NuGet:

    ```
    dotnet add package StackExchange.Redis --version 2.0.601
    ```

    > **Note**: The ``dotnet add package`` command will add the **[StackExchange.Redis](https://www.nuget.org/packages/StackExchange.Redis/2.0.601)** package from **NuGet**.

1.  Using the same terminal, build the ASP.NET Core web application project:

    ```
    dotnet build
    ```

1.  Dispose of the current terminal.

#### Task 2: Write .NET code to connect to Azure Cache for Redis

1.  Create a new **AdventureWorks.Context/AdventureWorksRedisContext.cs** file in Visual Studio Code.

1.  Add the following using blocks for libraries that will be referenced by the application:

    ```
    using AdventureWorks.Models;
    using Newtonsoft.Json;
    using StackExchange.Redis;
    using System;
    using System.Collections.Generic;
    using System.Linq;
    using System.Threading.Tasks;
    ```

1.  Enter the following code to add a **AdventureWorks.Context** namespace block:

    ```
    namespace AdventureWorks.Context
    {
    }
    ```

1.  Create a new **AdventureWorksRedisContext** class that implements the **IAdventureWorksCheckoutContext** interface with a single readonly **IDatabase** variable: 

    ```
    public class AdventureWorksRedisContext : IAdventureWorksCheckoutContext
    {
        private readonly IDatabase _database;
    }
    ```

1.  Within the **AdventureWorksRedisContext** class, add a new constructor that creates a new instance of the **ConnectionMultiplexer** class and then get the database instance:

    ```
    public AdventureWorksRedisContext(string connectionString)
    {        
        ConnectionMultiplexer connection = ConnectionMultiplexer.Connect(connectionString);
        _database = connection.GetDatabase();
    }
    ```

1.  Within the **AdventureWorksRedisContext** class, add a new **AddProductToCartAsync** method that gets the current value from a key, creates a new list if one does not already exists, adds the product to the list, and then stores the list as the new value for the key in the database:

    ```
    public async Task AddProductToCartAsync(string uniqueIdentifier, Product product)
    {     
        RedisValue result = await _database.StringGetAsync(uniqueIdentifier);
        List<Product> products = new List<Product>();
        if (!result.IsNullOrEmpty)
        {
            List<Product> parsed = JsonConvert.DeserializeObject<List<Product>>(result.ToString());
            products.AddRange(parsed);
        }
        products.Add(product);
        string json = JsonConvert.SerializeObject(products);
        await _database.StringSetAsync(uniqueIdentifier, json);   
    }
    ```

1.  Within the **AdventureWorksRedisContext** class, add a new **GetProductsInCartAsync** method that gets the list from the database and parse the JSON value into a collection of **Product** instances:

    ```
    public async Task<List<Product>> GetProductsInCartAsync(string uniqueIdentifier)
    {     
        string json = await _database.StringGetAsync(uniqueIdentifier);
        List<Product> products = JsonConvert.DeserializeObject<List<Product>>(json ?? "[]");
        return products;   
    }
    ```

1.  Within the **AdventureWorksRedisContext** class, add a new **ClearCart** method that removes a key and its associated values from the database:

    ```
    public async Task ClearCart(string uniqueIdentifier)
    {   
        await _database.KeyDeleteAsync(uniqueIdentifier);     
    }
    ```

1.  Save the **AdventureWorksRedisContext.cs** file.

1.  Using a terminal, change your context to the **AdventureWorks.Context** folder:

    ```
    cd .\AdventureWorks.Context\
    ```
    
1.  Using the same terminal, build the ASP.NET Core web application project:

    ```
    dotnet build
    ```

    > **Note**: If there are any build errors, please review the **AdventureWorksRedisContext.cs** file located in the **Allfiles (F):\\Allfiles\\Labs\\03\\Solution\\AdventureWorks\\AdventureWorks.Context** folder.

1.  Dispose of the current terminal.

#### Task 3: Update Redis connection string

1.  Open the **AdventureWorks.Web/appsettings.json** file in Visual Studio Code.

1.  Replace the value of the ``ConnectionStrings.AdventureWorksRedisContext`` property with the **Primary connection string (StackExchange.Redis)** of the **Azure Cache for Redis** instance that you recorded earier in this lab.

1.  Replace the existing **false** value of the ``Settings.CartAvailable`` property with a new value of **true**.

1.  Save the **appsettings.json** file.

#### Task 4: Update .NET application startup logic

1.  Open the **AdventureWorks.Web/Startup.cs** file in Visual Studio Code.

1.  In the **Startup** class, locate the existing **ConfigureCheckoutService** method.

    > **Note**: The current product service uses SQL as its database.

1.  Replace the **ConfigureCheckoutService** method implementation with the following code:

    ```
    public void ConfigureCheckoutService(IServiceCollection services)
    {
        services.AddScoped<IAdventureWorksCheckoutContext, AdventureWorksRedisContext>(provider =>
            new AdventureWorksRedisContext(
                _configuration.GetConnectionString(nameof(AdventureWorksRedisContext))
            )
        );
    }
    ```

1.  Save the **Startup.cs** file.

#### Task 5: Validate .NET application successfully connects to Azure Cache for Redis

1.  Using a terminal, change your context to the **AdventureWorks.Web** folder:

    ```
    cd .\AdventureWorks.Web\
    ```
    
1.  Using the same terminal, run the ASP.NET Core web application project:

    ```
    dotnet run
    ```

    > **Note**: The ``dotnet run`` command will automatically build any changes to the project and then start the web application without a debugger attached. The command will output the URL of the running application and any assigned ports.

1.  Open the **Microsoft Edge** browser.

1.  In the open browser window, observe the list of models displayed on the front page.

1.  Locate the **Mountain-400-W** model and select **View Details**.

1.  On the **Mountain-400-W** product detail page, perform the following actions:

    1.  In the **Select options** list, select **Mountain-400-W Silver, 40, $769.49**.
    
    1.  Select **Add to Cart**.

1.  On the shopping cart page, observe the contents of the cart and then select **Checkout**.

1.  On the checkout page, observe the final receipt.

1.  Select the **Shopping Cart** icon at the top of the page.

1.  On the shopping cart page, observe the empty cart.

1.  Close the browser window showing your web application.

1.  Return to the **Visual Studio Code** window.

1.  Dispose of the current terminal.

#### Review

In this exercise, you used C# code to store and retrieve data from an Azure Cache for Redis store.

### Exercise 7: Clean up subscription

#### Task 1: Open Azure Cloud Shell

1.  At the top of the Azure portal, click the **Cloud Shell** icon to open a new shell instance.

1.  In the **Cloud Shell** command prompt at the bottom of the portal, type the following command and press Enter to list all resource groups in the subscription:

    ```
    az group list
    ```

1.  Type the following command and press Enter to view a list of possible commands to delete a resource group:

    ```
    az group delete --help
    ```

#### Task 2: Delete resource groups

1.  Type the following command and press Enter to delete the **PolyglotData** resource group:

    ```
    az group delete --name PolyglotData --no-wait --yes
    ```

1.  Close the **Cloud Shell** pane at the bottom of the portal.

#### Task 3: Close active applications

1.  Close the currently running **Microsoft Edge** application.

1.  Close the currently running **Visual Studio Code** application.

#### Review

In this exercise, you cleaned up your subscription by removing the **resource groups** used in this lab.